# CS-4346-Project-2

CS 4346:Artificial Intelligence—Fall 2020

Project #2

Due Date: Nov. 9, 2020

1. Form a team of a maximum of three students. Please email the names of your team members to me very soon. -5 points if I do not get it by Oct. 4.

2. Develop programs by implementing algorithms MINMAX-A-B (Power Point slide in SCP #6 as well as given at the end of this project description) in C or C++ language. Discuss with the instructor if you wish to use any other programming language.

3. Use Tic-Tac-Toe game in your project #2 to run your program. Use the evaluation function discussed in the class as well as create additional evaluation functions (One function per team members). Four evaluation functions for the team of three team members.

4. In order to evaluate performance of each evaluation, you will be running your program six time as indicated below:

o Max (Running MinMax A-B with EV#1) verses Min (Running MinMax A-B with EV #2)

o Max (Running MinMax A-B with EV#1) verses Min (Running MinMax A-B with EV #3)

o Max (Running MinMax A-B with EV#1) verses Min (Running MinMax A-B with EV #4)

o Max (Running MinMax A-B with EV#2) verses Min (Running MinMax A-B with EV #3)

o Max (Running MinMax A-B with EV#2) verses Min (Running MinMax A-B with EV #4)

o Max (Running MinMax A-B with EV#3) verses Min (Running MinMax A-B with EV #4)

5. You are expected to develop the program as a team. After the program is developed and evaluation functions generated, each member of the team will work separately to do the following:

§ Execute your programs with these combinations which will let you analyze the performance of each evaluation function by tabulating the total length of the game path, total number of nodes generated and expanded, execution time, the size of memory used by the program, and winning/losing statistics.

For example: Comparing the total length of the game path, total number of nodes generated and expanded, execution time, the size of memory used by the program, and winning/losing statistics of the run Max (Running MinMax A-B with EV#1) versus the total length of the game path, total number of nodes generated and expanded, execution time, the size of memory

used by the program, and winning/losing statistics of the run Min (Running MinMax A-B with EV #2) will let you compare the performance of the Evaluation function #1 versus the Evaluation function #2.Analyze the tabulated results of all combinations and determine which evaluation functions are better. Write the conclusions you draw from these analyses.

§ Write the project report which must be in the required format and must include the team member contributions, the problem, domain, methodologies, the source code implementations, run time results, analysis of the program and the analysis of results.

If asked, demonstrate the execution of the program.

Note: In order to conveniently understand your program, print initial state, some intermediate states as they are generated, the final state when it is reached, and finally, the path generated by your program. Note that writing an efficient and working program is only one-half of the project. The other half of the project is to present it in the best possible understandable form.

Warning: EACH STUDENT MUST PERFORM STEPS 1 TO 4 INDIVIDUALLY. DO NOT COPY PROGRAMS FROM ANY SOURCE. A
